**6. HTTP PART PART 1**
------------------------------------------------------------
1. Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
    - is a protocol used for exchanging information over the internet. 
    - delivery system for information on the internet.
    - It's the foundation of the World Wide Web and is what makes the internet work.
        * a way for web browsers and servers to talk and send things like web pages back and forth.

2. HTTP Request-Response Cycle
    - process where a client (ie web browser/mobile app) communicates w/a server to get resources or perform actions.
    - The cycle involves several steps:
        1. client initiates a request to the server by sending an HTTP request message, which contains information such as the requested resource and any additional parameters.
        2. server receives the request message and processes it, using its resources to generate a response message.
        3. server sends the response message back to the client, which typically contains the requested resource (such as a web page) and any additional information or metadata.
        4. The client receives the response message and processes it, usually by rendering the content in a web browser or displaying it in an app.
        5.  client may initiate additional requests to the server, repeating the cycle as needed.

3. Creating HTTP Requests
    - To create a valid HTTP request, you need the following:
        1. A URL.
        2. The HTTP method.
        3. A list of headers (request headers).
        4. The request body.

    - Example:
        `GET /watch?v=8PoQpnlBXD0 HTTP/1.1`
        `Host: www.youtube.com`
        `Cookie: GPS=1; VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE=kOe2UTUyPmw; YSC=Jt6s9YVWMd4`

        1. The first line specifies the HTTP method, path, and protocol version. In this case, it is a `GET` request for the video located at the path `/watch?v=8PoQpnlBXD0` using the HTTP/1.1 protocol.
        2. The second line specifies the host of the website, which is `www.youtube.com`.
        3. The third line contains a cookie header, which is used for sending and storing small pieces of data on the client side. In this case, the cookie header contains three values: `GPS=1`, `VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE=kOe2UTUyPmw`, and `YSC=Jt6s9YVWMd4`. These values can be used by YouTube to track and personalize the user's experience.

4. HTTP Request URL
    - web browser attempts to access an image on the internet, it sends a request to the server using a URL. 
    - This URL is unique and points to a specific resource on the server.
        * A `resource` can be anything that has a name and can be accessed with a unique identifier
            * > like a user, product, article, document, or image. You can think of resources as nouns.

5. HTTP Request Methods
    - The request method tells the server what kind of action the client wants the server to take. 
    - The most common methods are:
           ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           |    HTTP Methods |  Definition                                                     |
           ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           |    HEAD         |  Asks the server for status (size, availability) of a resource. |
           |    GET          |  Asks the server to retrieve a resource.                        |
           |    POST         |  Asks the server to create a new resource.                      |
           |    PUT          |  Asks the server to edit/update an existing resource.           |
           |    DELETE       |  Asks the server to delete a resource.                          |
           -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6. HTTP Request Headers
    - additional pieces of information that are sent by the client as part of an HTTP request. 
    - They have a name/value format. That is:
        * > `Name: Value`
    - These headers provide context and additional instructions to the server, 
        * > which can be used to process the request or customize the response.
    - example:
        `GET /api/data HTTP/1.1`
        `Host: example.com`
        `User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/89.0.4389.82 Safari/537.36`
        `Accept: application/json`
        `Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5`
        `Authorization: Token abc123`
        `Cache-Control: no-cache`
        `Connection: keep-alive`
        `Referer: https://www.google.com/`
        `Pragma: no-cache`
        * > In this example, the GET method is used to send a request to the /api/data endpoint on the example.com server using HTTP/1.1 protocol. 
        * > The request includes ten headers:
            1. `Host`
                - This header specifies the hostname of the server that the client is trying to connect to.
            2. `User-Agent`
                - This header specifies the hostname of the server that the client is trying to connect to.
            3. `Accept`
                - This header specifies the MIME types of data that the client is willing to accept in the response.
            4. `Accept-Language`
                - This header specifies the preferred language(s) for the response.
            5. `Authorization`
                - This header provides an access token (in this case, Token abc123) for authentication purposes.
            6. `Cache-Control`
                - T`his header specifies caching directives for both requests and responses.
            7. `Connection`
                - This header specifies options for the connection handling between client and server.
            8. `Referer`
                - This header specifies the URL of the page that linked to the current page.
            9. `Pragma`
                - This header specifies implementation-specific directives that might apply to any agent along the request-response chain.
            10. `Content-Type`
                - This header specifies the MIME type of the data that is being sent in the body of the request, but it is not used in this example because this is a GET request without a request body.

7. HTTP Request Body
    - the data that is sent from the client to the server as part of an HTTP request.
    - example:
        `POST /v1/images/upload HTTP/1.1`
        `Host: api.thecatapi.com`
        `x-api-key: API_KEY`
        `Content-Length: 232`
        `Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=----WebKitFormBoundary7MA4YWxkTrZu0gW`

        `------WebKitFormBoundary7MA4YWxkTrZu0gW`
        `Content-Disposition: form-data; name="file"; filename="/C:/Users/USER/Downloads/cat1.jpg"`
        `Content-Type: image/jpeg`

        `(data)`
        `------WebKitFormBoundary7MA4YWxkTrZu0gW--`

        * > The request includes these headers:
            1. `Host`: 
                - This header specifies the hostname of the server that the client is trying to connect to.
            2. `Content Type`:
                - The request is uploading an image file named `cat1.jpg` using a type of data called `multipart/form-data`. The image is in JPEG format and its content is included in the request body.
            3. `x api key`:
                - This header provides an API key for authentication purposes.
            4. `Content Length`:
                - This header specifies the length of the request body in bytes. The value of this field is 232.
        * > When the server receives this request, it will parse the request body and use it to create a new entry in the Cat API database.
        * > The server will then return a response that includes information about the new entry, such as the image URL and the database ID.

8. HTTP Response
    - is the message that a server sends back to a client in response to an HTTP request.
    - usually consists of a status line, headers, and a message body:
            `HTTP/1.1 200 OK`
            `Date: Sun, 28 Mar 2023 10:15:00 GMT`
            `Content-Type: application/json`
            `Server: Apache/2.4.39 (Unix) OpenSSL/1.1.1c PHP/7.3.6`
            `Content-Length: 1024`
            `{`
                `"name": "John Doe",`
                `"email": "johndoe@example.com",`
                `"age": 30,`
                `"address": {`
                    `"street": "123 Main St",`
                    `"city": "Anytown",`
                    `"state": "CA",`
                    `"zip": "12345"`
                `}`
            `}`

        1. `status line`:
            - contains the HTTP version, a status code indicating the outcome of the request, and a corresponding message.
        2. `headers`: 
            - provide additional information about the response, such as the content type of the message body or the date and time that the response was sent.
        3. `message body`
            - contains the actual response data, such as HTML, JSON, or XML content.
    - Some common HTTP status codes include:
           ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           |  HTTP Code |  Meaning                                                                           |
           ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           |    100     |  Continue                                                                          |
           |    101     |  Switching Protocols                                                               |
           |    200     |  OK                                                                                |
           |    201     |  Created                                                                           |
           |    202     |  Accepted                                                                          |
           |    203     |  Non-Authoritative Information                                                     |
           |    404     |  Not Found : The requested resource was not found on the server.                   |
           |    500     |  Internal Server Error: server encountered error while processing request.         |
           |    301     |  Moved Permanently: The requested resource has been permanently moved to a new URL.|
           ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


**6. HTTP PART PART 2**
------------------------------------------------------------
- Client makes request
    * request has no body
    * request structure
        1. `Start Line`:
            - Method    Target       Version
            - GET   /background.png  HTTP/1.0
        2. `Headers`:
            - User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0
        3. `Body`: None for GET
- Server send response
    * response comes with a status code
        * > 1xx informational
        * > 2xx Success
        * > 3xx Redirection
        * > 4xx Client Error
        * > 5xx Server Error
    * response structure
        1. `Start Line`:
            - Version   Status Code  Status Text
            - HTTP/1.0      404        Not Found
        2. `Headers`:
            - Content-Type: Image/Png
        3. `Body`:
            - The file/resource requested
- HTTP is stateless
- Based on TCP/IP
- 3 Parts to the request/response messages.
    
